Order of business:
RULES OF THE GAME

Write Freedom / Respect / Diversity + Narrative/Resistance

How to address me:
	You can choose to address me as Juan or Dr. Angueyra, because I believe that the main driver between our interaction is respect. For this same reason, when we address other faculty, we will use Dr. unless they give us express permission to do otherwise.
	My preferred pronouns are he/him.

Go around class and make introductions and preferred pronouns + expectations about CitizenScience

Syllabus:
	Any questions? Things unclear? Changes?
	We will make classroom spaces into labs, which are a sacred spaces because they require free-interaction to work. First thing we are going to do today is to define our own rules of engagament in lab:
	Then sign informed Consent

15 minutes of code? Processing? Optional





M&Ms
Play song
introduce vh
case-study handout
think-pair-share: hypothesis (5 mins)
all hypothesis -> which one should we use as a class
segway: why should we approach this problem through science instead of another discipline? i.e. how is science different?

What makes science different from other disciplines?
	Objective: scientific facts are supposed to be independent of the observer (data sharing/presentation)
	Universal: reproducibility


Then go over:

History
Science = philosophy until XXth century
Hisotry is long: Greek, Arab, Persian philosphers. Pillar: observation to understand the world
Francis Bacon (1561 - 1626): foundations of experiemntation
1900s: technology advances produce a schism
Vienna Circle: use TSM for philosophy and social science
Thomas Kuhn (we will review him later)


TSM other strengths:	
	Rational
	Logical process
	Scientific thoeires are revised continually
	Framework to build new knowledge
	Predictive capabilities

Steps of the TSM:
	Different arrows -> TSM is a living process that can be muted, changed depending on purpose
	What is a hypothesis? How is it different from a belief?

Nature of science:
	There are many ways to do science -> then What is science?

	
Weaknesses of TSM:
	Falsifiability: you can never prove that your hypothesis is right
		Raven paradox
 Say you are interested in the color of ravens. You have observed a few ravens, they all seem to be black… so you follow TSM, and make the hypothesis that All Ravens are Black. How would you test this hypothesis?
Observe all ravens? No, that is practically impossible. Instead, let us observe a subset of ravens. All of them are black. Does this mean that your hypothesis is correct? Not necessarily, because there still might be a white raven out there (Albino-ism); or a raven that has not yet been born, or that has already died that was not black.  Therefore, you can never prove that a hypothesis is correct. However, with a single observation of a white raven, your hypothesis is now wrong.

Which is why we have null hypothesis. (Expalin what is a null hypothesis) In some ways, a null hypothesis allows us to overcome this shortcoming of TSM. Experiments are designed to prove that the null hypothesis is wrong, but it does not actually prove that the alternative hypothesis is correct. 



	Only addresses the how things work, not the why thigs are the way they are
	Only is concerned wth physical phenomena
	Scientists are humans and prone to bias
	Data is intepreted (human error)
	Science is inductive, so never 100% sure (proof)
	
	
Back to M&Ms
	GOAL: Design experiment to test the hypothesis then conduct experiment
	
	Class discussion: what question should the subject be asked?
		Best question: was the MnM you just ate brown?
	Expected results?
	Statistical significance?
	
	Show and critique experimental design
	Conduct experiment and collect data
	Analysis of results


M&Ms follow-up:
	NatFC: compromise to accomodate for reality
	
	What is food coloring made of? -> petroleum byproduct since 60s
	David Lee Roth and Eddie grew up before the 60s, so MnMs were different. 
	Think-Pair-Share: Does this change your conclusions? (write down) What would you do know?
	Is this similar to checks? Happened to me with responses of different cone types
	Mention Feingold: ADHD and artFC
	Ban in EU (since '94) of artFC in candy.
	Bring out Unreal and new handout (limited resources)