Course title: Citizen Science: Narratives
January 8th-25th,2017

There are some oddities in the perspective with which we see the world. The fact that we live at the bottom of a deep gravity well, on the surface of a gas covered planet going around a nuclear fireball 90 million miles away and think this to be normal is obviously some indication of how skewed our perspective tends to be, but we have done various things over intellectual history to slowly correct some of our misapprehensions.
Douglas Adams (Speech, Cambridge, UK, 1998: http://www.biota.org/people/douglasadams/index.html)

Instructor: Juan Angueyra (jangueyra@bard.edu)
Grading policy: Satisfactory / Unsatisfactory
- Citizen Science is required
- Evaluation will be based on attendance, completion of assignments and participation in class
- Students are expected to attend all class sessions
- Extended information can be found in moodle2

Rationale
"How can we reduce the global burden of infectious disease?"
To address this question, science?
Goal is not to turn everybody into a scientist but rather expose you firsthand to experimental science so that you can understand the limits of the scientific method??
strengths / pitfalls / mental paradigm / theories

Course Aims and outcomes
Over citizen science you are expected to learn how to:
1) Read a scientific paper, including interpreting data, identification of key points and understanding limitations
2) Perform a literature search to corroborate scientific claims
3) Make an experimental design, perform experiments, collect and analyze data
4) Present your results in a clear, concise and persuasive manner


Format and Procedures:


My assumptions


Course requirements
Class attandance and participation










OPTIONAL Title IX wording for your syllabus:

Bard College is committed to fostering a safe, productive learning environment. Title IX and our school policy prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex regarding gender-misconduct — including harassment, domestic and dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. We understand that sexual violence can undermine students’ academic success and we encourage students who have experienced some form of sexual misconduct to talk to someone about their experience, so they can get the support they need.  A complete list of confidential and non-confidential resources can be found at www.bard.edu/titleix.  Alleged violations can be non-confidentially reported to the Office for Gender Equity at TitleIX@bard.edu or 845-758-7542.


REQUIRED Academic Integrity Statement for your syllabus

Citizen Science adheres to Bard’s policies on academic dishonesty and plagiarism, which can be found in the student handbook, and online at: http://www.bard.edu/undergraduate/requirements/.  All students are bound by these policies, and are expected to always act in an ethical and honest manner with regard to their academic work. The work done in Citizen Science should be your own. Any ideas or work that you use which are not your own should be clearly attributed to the source. If you are unsure if you are providing appropriate or sufficient citation, you should contact the professor before submitting the final draft of the assignment.